Answer: [Yes]
Justification:
Guidelines:

¢ The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.

* Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https: //nips.cc/
public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.

e While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
benchmark).

¢ The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https
//nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.

¢ The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.

¢ The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.

e At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
versions (if applicable).

¢ Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.

6. Experimental Setting/Details
Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyper-
parameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
results?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification:
Guidelines:

e The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.

¢ The experimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.

¢ The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
material.

7. Experiment Statistical Significance
Question: Does the paper report error bars suitably and correctly defined or other appropriate
information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
Answer: |No]
Justification: error bars are not reported because it would be too computationally expensive
Guidelines:

e The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.

¢ The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confi-
dence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
the main claims of the paper.

¢ The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
run with given experimental conditions).

¢ The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)

e The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).

* It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
of the mean.

31
