and uninformative for a long time, leading to slow convergence in the fine-tuning process. We also
observe this phenomenon empirically, as LORA often wastes much time around the initial point.
Our Principal Singular values and Singular vectors Adapter (PiSSA) diverges from LoRA and its
successors by focusing not on approximating AW, but W. We apply singular value decomposition
(SVD) to matrix W. Based on the magnitude of the singular values, we partition W into two parts:
the principal low-rank matrix W?", comprising a few largest singular values, and the residual matrix
W'°*, which possesses the remaining smaller singular values (with a larger quantity, representing
a possible long-tail distribution). The principal matrix W?" can be represented by the product of
AéR™*" and B € R™*”, where r < min(m, 7). As depicted in Figure le] Aand B are initialized
based on the principal singular values and singular vectors and are trainable. Conversely, W"°* is
initialized with the product of the residual singular values and singular vectors and remains frozen
during fine-tuning. Since the principal singular vectors represent the directions in which the matrix W
has the most significant stretching or impact, by directly tuning these principal components, PiSSA is
able to fit the training data faster and better (as demonstrated in Figure[2ab. Moreover, the loss
and gradient norm curves of PiSSA often demonstrate a similar trend to those of full parameter fine-
tuning in our experiments (Figure (4), indicating that fine-tuning the principal components matches
the behavior of fine-tuning the full matrix to some degree.
—— Full FT Loss: 2.014 Mmm LoftQ r64 1-iter
rs —  LoRALoss: 6.037 "> PiSSA r64 1-iter
02 a — PISSA Loss: 1.780 3 lm LoftQ r64 5-iter
= lm PISSA r64 5-iter
3 lm ~PISSA r128 5-iter
|
-0.6 04 0.2 0.0 02 04 “= LLaMA-3-8B a LLaMA-3-70B ~
(a) PiSSA converges more rapidly. (b) PiSSA reduces more quantization error.
Figure 2: We illustrate the two key advantages of PiSSA: converging faster and better, and reducing
quantization error. In the left figure, we use a toy example to show PiSSA’s faster convergence, where
we first train a two-layer MLP classifying odd numbers of MNIST, and then fine-tune the model
on even numbers. PiSSA finds the right direction more quickly and achieves a lower loss with the
same number of steps. In the right figure, PiSSA reduces quantization error more effectively than
LoftQ (14], with an optional 5-iteration SVD for further error reduction, as detailed in Appendix |E|
Because the principal components W?” are preserved in the adapter at full precision, an additional
benefit of PiSSA is that when applying quantization to the frozen part W"°*, we can significantly
reduce the quantization error compared to QLoRA (which quantizes the entire W), as illustrated
in Figure[2b| Therefore, PiSSA is even more compatible with quantization than LoRA, making it a
superior plug-and-play substitution for LORA.
Our paper makes several significant contributions:
¢ We analyze the initial gradient magnitude and direction in LoRA, demonstrating that A
initially has a zero gradient and B has a random gradient, which slows down convergence
and may lead to convergence at suboptimal local minima.
¢ We propose PiSSA initialization, a novel method that approximates the optimization di-
rection of full-parameter fine-tuning by adapting a model’s principal components. To our
knowledge, PiSSA is the first to apply SVD to the original model, using principal singu-
lar values and vectors to initialize the adapter for fine-tuning, while keeping the residual
components frozen. Experiments show that PiSSA converges faster and outperforms LoRA.
¢ We combine PiSSA with NF4 quantization to propose QPiSSA, which reduces quantization
error by about 20% compared to QLoRA, while maintaining the fast convergence and high
performance of PiSSA.
3
