So9| --- QLORA on ——— FullFT —e— LoftQ
=" | mm Lofta 8 —s LoRA = —*— QLoRA
7°] mam arissa go4 =
310 FA
ind =
i =
or rr nr er ne er ETT cee Sy ee er
(a) Quantization error reduction ratio across ranks. (b) Training loss under various ranks.
S50] --- FullFT mM LoQ 28 Sf mee FUT  LoftQ | nm
> Mam LoRA (im QLORA ne Mmm = LoRA (im QLORA
8 ao lm ~PISSA >) QPISSA B® lm ~PISSA " QPISSA
& 30 z 4
3 =
20 1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128 1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128
(c) Accuracy on GSM8K under various ranks. (d) Accuracy on MATH under various ranks.
Figure 7: The comparison among (Q)LoRA, (Q)PiSSA, LoftQ, and full fine-tuning across ranks.
6 Conclusion
This paper presents a PEFT technique that applies singular value decomposition (SVD) to the weight
matrix of pre-trained models. The principal components obtained from the SVD are used to initialize
a low-rank adapter named PiSSA, while the residual components are kept frozen, to achieve effective
fine-tuning and parameter efficiency simultaneously. Through extensive experiments, we found that
PiSSA and its 4-bit quantization version QPiSSA significantly outperform LoRA and QLoRA in both
NLG and NLU tasks, across different training steps, various model sizes and types, and under various
amount of trainable parameters. PiSSA provides a novel direction for research in PEFT by identifying
and fine-tuning the principal components within the model, analogous to slicing and re-baking the
richest slice of a pizza. As PiSSA shares the same architecture as LoRA, it can be seamlessly used in
existing LoRA pipelines as an efficient alternative initialization method.
7 Limitation
There are still some questions with PiSSA not addressed in this paper: 1) Besides language models,
can PiSSA also be adapted to convolutional layers and enhance the performance of vision tasks? 2)
Can PiSSA also benefit from some improvements to LoRA, such as AdaLoRA and DyLoRA
which adaptively adjust the rank? 3) Can we provide more theoretical explanations for the advantages
of PiSSA over LoRA? We are actively exploring these questions. Nevertheless, we are excited to see
the huge potential of PiSSA already demonstrated in existing experiments and look forward to more
tests and suggestions from the community.
8 Acknowledgements:
This work is supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (2022ZD0160300).
10
